Clock Frequency Optimization Examples
==================================
Improving Kernel Clock Frequency through Optimized code.

 __Examples Table__ 

Example        | Description           | Key Concepts / Keywords 
---------------|-----------------------|-------------------------
[critical_path_ocl/][]|This example shows a normal coding style which could lead to critical path issue and design will give degraded timing.  Example also contains better coding style which can improve design timing.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Critical Path handling<br> - Improve Timing<br>
[large_loop_c/][]|This is a CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) based example which mainly focuses on Convolution operation of a CNN network. The goal of this example is to demonstrate a method to overcome kernel design timing failure issue. It also presents the effectiveness of using multiple compute units to improve performance.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Clock Frequency<br> - Multiple Compute Units<br> - Convolutional Neural Networks<br>__Keywords__<br> - #pragma HLS ARRAY_PARTITION<br> - #pragma HLS PIPELINE<br> - #pragma HLS INLINE
[large_loop_ocl/][]|This is a CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) based example which mainly focuses on Convolution operation of a CNN network. The goal of this example is to demonstrate a method to overcome kernel design timing failure issue. It also presents the effectiveness of using multiple compute units to improve performance.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Clock Frequency<br> - Multiple Compute Units<br> - Convolutional Neural Networks<br>__Keywords__<br> - xcl_array_partition<br> - xcl_pipeline_loop<br> - always_inline
[split_kernel_c/][]|This is a multi-filter image processing application to showcase effectiveness of Dataflow/Streams usage. This examples is intended to help developers to break down the complex kernels into multiple sub-functions using HLS Dataflow/Streams. It presents a way to concurrently execute multiple functions with better area utilization compared to a complex single kernel implementation. The main objective of this example is to showcase a way to build a optimal FPGA design which achieves maximum frequency with optimal resource utilization and achieves better performance compared to single complex kernel implementations.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Dataflow<br> - Stream<br>__Keywords__<br> - #pragma HLS DATAFLOW<br> - hls::stream<br> - #pragma HLS INLINE<br> - #pragma HLS ARRAY_PARTITION<br> - #pragma HLS PIPELINE
[split_kernel_ocl/][]|This is a multi-filter image processing application to showcase effectiveness of Dataflow/Streams usage. This examples is intended to help developers to break down the complex kernel into multiple sub-functions using OpenCL Dataflow. It presents a way to concurrently execute multiple functions with better area utilization compared to a complex single kernel implementation. The main objective of this example is to showcase a way to build a optimal FPGA design which achieves maximum frequency with optimal resource utilization and achieves better performance compared to single kernel implementations.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Dataflow<br> - Stream<br>__Keywords__<br> - xcl_dataflow<br> - xcl_array_partition<br> - xcl_pipeline_loop
[too_many_cu_c/][]|This is simple example of vector addition to demonstrate effectiveness of using single compute unit with heavy work load to achieve better performance. Bad example uses multiple compute units to achieve good performance but it results in heavy usage of FPGA resources and area due to which design fails timing. Good example uses single compute unit to compute with heavier work load, it helps in less resource utilization and also helps in kernel scalability. To switch between Good/Bad cases use the flag provided in makefile.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Clock Frequency<br> - Data Level Parallelism<br> - Multiple Compute Units<br>__Keywords__<br> - #pragma HLS PIPELINE<br> - #pragma HLS ARRAY_PARTITION
[too_many_cu_ocl/][]|This is simple example of vector addition to demonstrate effectiveness of using single compute unit with heavy work load to achieve better performance. Bad example uses multiple compute units to achieve good performance but it results in heavy usage of FPGA resources and area due to which design fails timing. Good example uses single compute unit to compute with heavier work load, it helps in less resource utilization and also helps in kernel scalability. To switch between Good/Bad cases use the flag provided in makefile.|__Key__ __Concepts__<br> - Clock Frequency<br> - Data Level Parallelism<br> - Multiple Compute Units<br>__Keywords__<br> - xcl_array_partition(complete, 1)<br> - xcl_pipeline_loop

[.]:.
[critical_path_ocl/]:critical_path_ocl/
[large_loop_c/]:large_loop_c/
[large_loop_ocl/]:large_loop_ocl/
[split_kernel_c/]:split_kernel_c/
[split_kernel_ocl/]:split_kernel_ocl/
[too_many_cu_c/]:too_many_cu_c/
[too_many_cu_ocl/]:too_many_cu_ocl/
